Ovirt Scenario and User guidelines (#59413)
ansible/ansible: docs/docsite/rst/scenario_guides/ovirt_scenarios/scenario_remove_vm.rst

.. _oVirt_guest_remove_virtual_machine:

*****************************************
Remove an existing oVirt virtual machine
*****************************************

.. contents::
   :local:

Introduction
============

This guide will show you how to utilize Ansible to remove an existing oVirt virtual machine.

Scenario Requirements
=====================

* Software

    * Ansible 2.5 or later must be installed.

>     * The Python module ``Pyvmomi`` must be installed on the Ansible control node (or Target host if not executing against localhost).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * The Python module ``ovirt-engine-sdk-python`` must be installed on the Ansible control node (or Target host if not executing against localhost).
```

>     * We recommend installing the latest version with pip: ``pip install Pyvmomi`` (as the OS packages are usually out of date and incompatible).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * We recommend installing the latest version with pip: ``pip install ovirt-engine-sdk-python`` (as the OS packages are usually out of date and incompatible).
```

.. code-block:: yaml

    ---
    - name: Remove virtual machine
      gather_facts: no
      vars_files:
        - vcenter_vars.yml
      vars:
        ansible_python_interpreter: "/usr/bin/env python3"
      hosts: localhost
      tasks:
        - set_fact:
            vm_name: "VM_0003"
            datacenter: "DC1"

        - name: Remove "{{ vm_name }}"
          oVirt_guest:
            hostname: "{{ vcenter_server }}"
            username: "{{ vcenter_user }}"
            password: "{{ vcenter_pass }}"
            validate_certs: no
            cluster: "DC1_C1"
            name: "{{ vm_name }}"
            state: absent
          delegate_to: localhost
          register: facts

Since Ansible utilizes the oVirt API to perform actions, in this use case it will be connecting directly to the API from localhost.

This means that playbooks will not be running from the oVirt/RHV engine or host Server.

Note that this play disables the ``gather_facts`` parameter, since you don't want to collect facts about localhost.

> You can run these modules against another server that would then connect to the API if localhost does not have access to oVirt/RHV engine. If so, the required Python modules will need to be installed on that target server. We recommend installing the latest version with pip: ``pip install Pyvmomi`` (as the OS packages are usually out of date and incompatible).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can run these modules against another server that would then connect to the API if localhost does not have access to oVirt/RHV engine. If so, the required Python modules will need to be installed on that target server. We recommend installing the latest version with pip: ``pip install ovirt-engine-sdk-python`` (as the OS packages are usually out of date and incompatible).
```
